# Exception Handling: A Deeper Look
As you know from Chapter 7, an exception is an indication of a problem that occurs during a program’s execution. Exception handling enables you to create applications that can resolve (or handle) exceptions. In many cases, handling an exception allows a program to continute executing as if no problem had been encountered. The features presented in this chapter help you write robust and fault-tolerant programs that can deal with problems and continue executing or terminate gracefully. Java exception handling is based in part on the work of Andrew Koenig and Bjarne Stroustrup.
First, we demonstrate basic exception-handling techniques by handling an exception that occurs when a method attempts to divide an integer by zero. Next, we introduce several classes at the top of Java’s exception-handling class hierarchy. As you’ll see, only classes that extend Throwable (package java.lang) directly or indirectly can be used with exception handling. We then show how to use chained exceptions—when you invoke a method that indicates an exception, you can throw another exception and chain the original one to the new one. This enables you to add application-specific information to the orginal exception. Next, we introduce preconditions and postconditions, which must be true when your methods are called and when they return, respectively. We then present assertions, which you can use at development time to help debug your code. We also discuss two exception-handling features that were introduced in Java SE 7—catching multiple exceptions with one catch handler and the new try-with-resources statement that automatically releases a resource after it’s used in the try block.
This chapter focuses on the exception-handling concepts and presents several mechanical examples that demonstrate various features. As you’ll see in later chapters, many Java APIs methods throw exceptions that we handle in our code. Figure 11.1 shows some of the exception types you’ve already seen and others you’ll learn about.
## 
###
